Now, for a little tough news.
Cost and performance issues do not automatically
vanish when you migrate your applications to the cloud.
It's an unfortunate fact that if you haven't done
good cost performance planning backed up by actual metrics,
you may end up paying more for the same performance as a data center.
Why is that? Performance issues can most often be traced back to the application itself,
and not necessarily the underlying infrastructure.
Lifting it out of the data center and shifting it to a cloud data center,
probably won't be able to immediately improve
the performance of an application with poor design.
In this case, it would be best to estimate the cost
of redesigning the application to be cloud native.
This would allow you to take advantage of
the cloud services that have been specifically designed,
with cost and performance in mind,
such as a suite of AWS serverless services.
Performance issues can also be traced to database response times,
and database design is often a culprit here as well.
Lots of companies have a culture of standardizing on one database,
whether it's the best database for every application or not,
and developers are constrained by that decision.
They have to make their applications work with the corporate standard database.
In order to achieve improved response times after shifting to the cloud,
a database redesign and possibly the selection of a new database may be advised as well.
One area where users are anticipating improvements when
moving to the cloud is a network response times.
AWS improves network response times with
their CloudFront content delivery network service,
which offers global edge cached locations,
to provide content to customers in their own geographic location.
AWS also offers the very popular Route 53 service,
that can be configured to route traffic based on policies,
geographic location, and even latency,
but it must be configured,
and your configuration decisions must be based on metrics.
Performance metrics such as logging and monitoring on your applications and databases,
will over time provides you with the baseline data required for you to
select the best services for your applications and underlying infrastructure.